Hi and welcome back to this energy course.
So we have just seen before briefly how the transformer generally works.
And we will now dive into the details of it and we will start with the most important parts.
The attention mechanism.
So what is the general idea behind that.
So we have two sequences or two sentences that can be equal in the case of the self attention be will
be the contexts and A will be the sequence that we want to really work with.
This is the sequence that conveys the information that we wanted to rearrange in a certain way.
So there can be difference in certain cases like for instance if we are working with the translator
we could have one sentence that is in English and the other one in French and we want to apply the attention
to those two sentences together or they can be the same for instance in the encoding but we have only
the input sentence and we just want to apply this this attention mechanism to a single sentence.
And in this case A and B will be equal.
So what we do with those two sentences is that we first wants to see how each element from a is related
to elements from B essay elements and not words because at the very beginning of course we have words
because the inputs is a sentence but later when we read and whinge all mattresses and we combine words
and we do some mathematical operations we still have sequences of same length but this time it's not
really correct to say that they are words the allergists elements mathematical elements that convey
information in a more efficient way.
So that's why I say elements and not words it's two sequences.
And at the very beginning its sentences.
So its words.
So we just wanted to see how each element from a is related to the elements from B.
And then we wanted to we combines all the elements from a according to those relations.
So we want to rearrange the information in a according to how each element of A is related to the elements
from B.
So if we do a before after this attention mechanism we have a beginning a sequence a and in context
B that tells us how we manipulate a and output.
We have a new sequence where each element I will be a mix of elements from a that's well related to
the elements B I.
So generally speaking B tells us how we we combined elements from a or in the case of the self attention
a tells us how we combine a.
So we can see that there are two important parts to two steps.
The first one being to compute the relations between elements from a and b.
And the second one is to use that in order to recombine.
So let's first talk about the first step getting the relations between the elements we know that's are
its words and later each element will be a vector because we will apply an embedding layer at the very
beginning of the model.
So each word is represented by a vector and a good way in maths to compute the similarity between two
vectors is to use that predicts.
So a dot product is a mathematical operations that take as inputs to vectors and gives us a number we
will say that it's between minus 1 and plus one.
Actually it's between minus the product of the norms and plus the product of the norms.
But in order to simplify this we will say that the norms of actors are ones so the outputs of the dot
products will be written minus 1 and plus 1.
And the idea is that two vectors will be similar if their dot product equals to 1 they will have no
correlation if the dot product equals to 0 and they will be collated in an opposite manner.
If the DOT predicts equals minus 1 and actually the way of computing those similarities focuses on the
directions of the vectors have a small animation for you to see how it works.
So we can see that the two vectors u and v and the direction of you is changing as time as time passes
and you can see here how the dot products changes with the direction of Hue changing.
So when you for instance here is starting to be perpendicular with the.
This is what we call non correlation you and V are not completed and you can see that the foot equals
equal to one 2 0.
Sorry.
Now you goes to the opposite direction.
And this is where the dot product equals minus one.
This just means that the Coalition is negative.
Here again we go to and then correlating and non coalition phase.
And now if you and we have a certain direction we say that they are highly correlated.
So there is a huge similar similarity between them and that's why this was equal to plus 1 so the dot
product is a very useful tool in order to capture the similarity between two words and that actually
perfectly fits the AARP context because when we do embedding we actually make sure that two words that
have similar meanings very close in all and meaning space which means that they have similar direction.
So a quick and very simple example of that this could be a representation of the imaging of three words
that would be joy despair and treat for instance.
And we can see that joy and despair they kind of have opposite meaning and that's why the vectors are
in the opposite direction.
So the dot products between joy and despair would be minus one.
And if I pick another random words like tree it is not really related to joy or despair.
So they are perpendicular with those two vectors and the DOT predicts will be equal to zero.
But it's true that we could argue that tree might be closer to joy than despair but whatever.
And every hard.
In other words like happiness for instance it will be very close to joy so depression will be very close
to the direction of the vector Joy.
So the DOT predicts between happiness and joy would be really close to one.
So finally the dot product is a very powerful tool in order to compute the similarity between two words.
So all we have to do now is to apply it to each page of words for all two sequences A and B.
There is a very simple way to do that and although to understand it we will have a look at how dot for
that and matrix multiplication work.
So first the dot products we can see here that we have two vectors.
The first one a B and the second one x y the first vector is horizontal and the other one is vertical.
This is how we write our vectors when we want to apply dot products and what it does is that it takes
the first element from the first vector and the first element from the second vector.
We multiply them together and we do the same thing for the second elements.
We multiply then also and we sum the total.
That's basically what that product does.
And what is interesting is that if instead of having a simple vector here we have a whole matrix.
The result of this matrix multiplied by the vector x y is on the first elements a x plus b y.
And the second is c x plus G Y and we can actually see that it really corresponds to the dot product
between A B and x y here and at the products between C D and X Y.
So multiplying a matrix by a vector is just to do multiple drug products at a time.
So each row of the matrix will be dot predicted with the second vector.
And the term that we could say that predicted but we will for the sake of this course.
And if we go even further because we place the second vector by a matrix also so we will get all matrix
ABC D and W X Y Z and again knowing that the first element is a W plus b y and so on we just can that
is that's actually H elements.
Is it the products.
And so multiplying two mattresses together is actually the same thing as computing all the products
with each row of the first Matrix with each column of the second matrix.
So if we want to compute many dot products at a time we just have to multiply the first Matrix which
is made of all the first vectors of the Bay of vectors.
We wanted to apply the dot product too and we just make a second matrix made with the second vectors
of the there are vectors that we wanted to apply the dot product to.
The important thing to keep in mind is that we want for the first Matrix to have all vectors horizontally
and for the second matrix we want all vectors to be vertical but we will come to that later.
So we know that we wanted to apply that predicts to each pair of words or each pair of elements from
all sequences in order to compute the similarity and we know that we can do that with the whole sequences
all the time just by using matrix multiplication so we can go back to the formula in the paper and this
figure that explains the whole process of the scale that predicts and have a closer look at it.
So we can see here that we have three sequences as inputs.
That's because it's a very general way to consider the scales drug products.
But in our case we have only two sequences.
As I said before sequence a sequence B and that's actually because K and V so the T's and the values
will always be the same in r in our model in the transformer and Q Could be difference.
So Q will be what I call the context is the sequence B and Q and V are the sequences that convey the
information that we want to we arrange that we wanted to work with.
So K envy are the sentence A that I talked about earlier.
So the first step that we can see here is that we multiply Q which is all context sentence with the
sequence K and after the embedding each sequence being a matrix we get all the products that we wanted
and then we talked earlier and this t here just means transpose and it means that we simply flip the
matrix in order to transform any horizontal vector into vertical vector.
And of course any vertical vector into horizontal vector so rows become columns and columns become rows.
And with that we make sure that the matrix multiplication actually gives us all the dot products between
all the pairs of elements from the two sequences Q and K all be in a.
So these two times Katie is a new metrics that conveys all the information about how Q is related to
K or more precisely how each elements or words of Q is related to each elements of k.
Now the next step we can he is these small scale it doesn't really have intuitively a meaning each tests
something we do to improve the model and it stabilizes the whole process but there is nothing really
to understand behind.
So we just divide by decay which is the dimension of each element of each Woods from the keys.
Then we can see that we apply a soft match so very quickly.
Soft Max is an aberration that takes as inputs a vector and as outputs we get a vector of the same dimension
that each element will be between 0 and 1.
That's the first thing that is important.
The second thing is that we keep the relations between each element of the initial vector.
So if elements 2 was lower that element 3 H will be the same after the soft Max.
So we just keep half each element is greater or lower than the others.
That's the second point about soft Max and the third one is that the sum of all elements from the output
of the S Max should be equal to 1.
And the reason for that is that it perfectly suites what we call weights in mathematics.
So we have just a sequence of numbers between 0 and 1 and their sum equals 1.
And having those weights is really useful because it allows us to weaken those elements from vectors
or to apply that products or to some elements from matrices of vectors or whatever in a very meaningful
way because it just tells us how much of each element we want to take when we make a sum or when we
re compose information and we are sure that there is nothing that that gets out of hands just because
the sum of everything equals one.
So there is also sort of a stability in the patients we will apply later.
So this stuff Max is necessary in order in order to get valid weights.
So now we have a perfect and valid representation of how each element from two was related to each element
from K so how each element from our sentence a is related to each element from the context sentence
B.
And finally we will use those weights to read compose elements from our sentence a which here is called
the to get in you rearranged version of the information in a in the values let's have a look at the
first visual representation in order to make it even more simple.
And this will be what's two times Katie looks like.
So I said that with this matrix multiplication we get a new metrics that tells us how each element from
two is related to each element from k.
And here we can see an example of those mattresses we have key words of our sentence.
Q It's a French sentence.
And here we have each word of the sentence K which is an English sentence.
So of course this is the attention mechanism in a translator.
And in this metrics each square represents the value the score of the similarity between two words and
the Y.
So it is the more important the similarity is between those two words.
And he of course as it is a translator and as the French language is very close to the English language
in terms of how a sentence is constructed.
We have a straight line here because we know that first words will most likely be the translation of
the first words for the other sentence too.
And that's the same for the words at the end of the sentence and for basically every local part of the
sentences.
But we can see some interesting behaviors.
For instance he we can see a brewing some sort of a square where we have some similarities that are
going on and that's normal because here we have in English it should be noted and in French we have
equally on the note taker which is the exact translation but it's not a word by words translation.
It's just that the global meaning of it should be noted that's corresponds to the global meaning of
equal view not the note.
And as it's not the word by words literal translation We can see that there is more than one square
that is activated.
So words are related to many other words in order to get the general meaning of this group of words.
So that's for the representation of what these Q times K means.
So now let's talk about the second main part and the second step in all attention mechanism which was
to recombine the the the sequence values which we called a before and is equal to k as V and K are the
same ones during all process in the transformer.
So now that we get ha Q and K and so Q and V are related let's re compose v according to that in order
to see what happens adjusts showed he a visual representation of how matrix multiplication works and
he on the left.
This matrix is the output of these operations.
So it's exactly the same kind of matrix that we had before he.
It's just the numerator similarity between the sequences and this matrix represents the sequence V.
Also right the dimension of the matrix so here the dimension on the left is the length of the sequence
Q hit the length of the sequence K because we made this operation q TIMES the transpose of K so this
is dimension of our matrix and hey this matrix is the sequence V so this dimension is the length of
the sequence V and this dimension is dimension of our model of course K and V being equal K length will
be equal to Valence.
So the matrix multiplication will be valid so let's say we wanted to know what we'll put in the second
row of our results.
This is done by Rico imposing elements from our sequence v according to this rule.
Father second row of our results we will only use the second row of or attention metrics and as each
soft Max has been applied real wise we actually know that this row will be a valid set of weights so
let's say for instance that the second word of Q was really related to the first and the third words
of K which is also V then it means that the coefficients a 2 1 and a 2 3 will be very very high.
They will actually be close to 1 and the others will be close to zero.
So when we do each vector multiplication here in this this row we know that we will use a lot of the
first and the third row of the.
And we will not use the others because this coefficient to 2 will be close to zero.
So we don't use this one but the coefficient to 1 is close to 1.
So we will use a lot of b 1 2 and third coefficient a 2 3 will be close to 1 so we will use a lots of
B 3 2.
So finally c 2 2 will be made of a lot of b 1 2 and b 3 2 and that will be the same for each other elements
of this row.
So that means that this row the second row of the outputs is made of lots of the first row of V and
the third row of V which makes sense because because we said earlier that's our second element from
Q The second word was related to the firsts was a V.
And the third would of the so if you summarize we have a sequence Q and A SEQUENCE V.
We will say V and it's the same as Q And the second word of Q is related to the first and the third
world of V.
So when we compute the attention mechanism at the end of its instead of Q we get a new sentence and
in the second elements we have a mix of the first and the third elements are words from V.
So this new sequence of sentence is a mix of elements from V according to how they were related.
Q So Q is really a guide to how we want to we compose and rearrange information from the that was for
how the attention mechanism works.
And now we'll see how it is applied in the transform it so we can see that it appears three times in
the transformer architecture it appears in the encoding phase and it appears twice in the decoding phase
in the encoding phase and the first time in the decoding phase we can see that the three inputs are
the same.
And this is what we call self attention.
So in this case Q will be equal to k and V.
So the initial sentence and the context sentence are the same which means that we will compose a sentence
according to how each word of the sentence is related to the other words of this very sentence.
And that's actually the main point in replacing our own ends with a more global way of encoding sentences
instead of encoding a sentence getting one word at a time we computes information globally with the
whole sentence at once.
And we repeat this process several times in the paper to say that they do that eight times in order
to make sure that we get the most out of this weakened position of the information and in the decoding
phase we start with the same thing we we composed information from the sentence that we give as inputs
for the decoder.
So we apply itself attentional layer and then there is this tension layer right here that doesn't use
the same sentence for the three inputs.
And in this case.
Q So the context sentence will be the outputs of these sub layer.
So it will be the sentence coming from the decoder and two and V which are equal will be the outputs
of the encoder.
So if we take the example of a translator let's say a translator That's transform an English sentence
into a French sentence here we will have an English sentence that we want to decompose with the contexts
made of a French sentence.
So before this layer we have an English sentence or an English sequence because we already applied some
mechanisms and maths to the English sentence but so we have an English sequence here that we want to
we compose according to a context that is made of the French sentence that we have made so far.
So we are in the middle of a translation.
He we have what we have constructed so far like half of a French sentence for instance we work with
it's a little bits and we get a contexts so all encoded version of the English sentence.
We'll see how it is related to the French sentence that we have made so far element wise and so we will
get a new real French version of the English sentence according to the work that we have already done
with the translation and that's how we get new information that we can use for the translation in order
to predict the next words in all translated sentence.
So the last element we need to see in the attrition mechanism is what they call in the paper.
Luke the head mask and this is something that appears that he in these very attention sub layer.
What it does is that's it for a visit the decoder to have access to future words.
And what I mean by that is doing the processing of the sequence indeed coda when we deal with the words
or the elements ie we don't want to have access to the word I and the following words to understand
that Let's simulate a training phase.
So during the training we will have a pair of texts or a pair of sentences we will take the example
of a translator.
So we will have an English sentence and the French sentence that is supposed to be the translation of
the English sentence.
So to train with this pair of sentences we will use the English sentence as inputs for the encoder and
we will use also the French sentence as targets as outputs for all decoder but we will also use this
sentence the French sentence to the output sentence as inputs for our decoder right here.
But as it is written here shifted right.
So what it means is that if you have a sentence of let's say 20 words what we will use here as inputs
is a sequence of 21 words.
The first one being just a token that we will call the starting token.
So it just says that the sentence starts.
And so what we want or transformed to do is to have as output he the exact same sentence as he but shifted
by one position to the left.
But of course in order to predict the words I wanted to transform to have only access to the first I
minus one words from the French sentence.
So what we will do is that during the self attention mechanism right Hey when we compose the sentence
I position I for instance we will only use the first ie elements from the sentence which are actually
the starting token and the first I minus one words and the best way to do that is to multiply all out
and matrix that we had before.
So with the few times occasions posts by a triangular metrics that we see which is made of once in the
bottom left parts of the matrix and zeros in this tricked top writes parts of the matrix environments
application I don't mean a standard matrix multiplication.
This is an element y's multiplication so we will multiply the top left value of this matrix by 1 then
the next value by 0 and so on so the top right value of this matrix by 0.
And that's how it works.
So by doing this we keep all the items and values from these spots of our attention matrix and we set
to 0 0 those values and to see exactly what does.
Let's have a look back at the visual representation of the matrix multiplication right here.
So this is all two times K transposed matrix.
And if we multiply by the look ahead masked what we saw before.
It just means that those coefficients stay the same in the bottom left parts.
But those coefficients now are set to zero.
So when we do the decomposition at the end so when we multiply by V which is again the same sentence
because we are in a self attention process.
If we go to second row for example here we have only the first two coefficients that are not equal to
zero and all the others are set to zero.
So that means that when we do that we composition we will multiply all those elements by zero and we
will only keep the first two elements of our initial sequence.
So our second elements in our output sequence will only pay attention to the first two elements of our
initial sequence which means just the starting token and the first words.
So that's exactly what we wanted element number I after the set attention mechanism in the decoder.
I've only access to the first I minus one woods and that's how we make sure that during the training
when we try to predict what.
No I.
We only have access to the previous words of the predicted sentence.
So that allows us to train with a day of sentence in only one step by simulating the facts.
That's to predict the next words in all I sentence.
We don't have yet.
The rest of the sentence.
So that was for this look ahead mask.
And finally now we can see in the paper that there is this other figure that explained how the use is
in the items in sub layer because they don't just apply the scaled dot products directly on the sentences
what they do is that's the first complete cleaning our projections and that then do the concatenation.
So instead of applying the scales that predicts attention to the whole sentence they speech each factor
from the sentence.
So each element from the sentence into safe spaces.
So let's say each words after embedding has a dimension of twelve for instance instead of applying the
scale the products to sequences made off elements of dimension twelve we will split it into let's say
it for sequences each element being of dimension 3 and then we compute this kid attention with that
and we can cut the result in order to get back to our initial dimension for the model.
And the reason for that is well explained in the paper they say no tell attention allows the module
to turn fully attention to information from different representations of spaces at different positions
with a single attention had averaging inhibits this.
So what it means is let's get back to our example with and being dimension of twelve.
We could say that's among the.
For instance three first dimensions of all embedding there is something that we wanted to get between
the first and the third words but it only appears in those first three dimensions.
Then we would really like to have all attention mechanism to be able to focus on those three dimensions
so that the information is not faded into the 12 initial dimension of the embedding.
So splitting the space into set of spaces allows the attention mechanism to attend to more information
and to be able to get more relations between the elements of a sequence.
And finally how we do that mathematically it's important to notice that we don't split the space into
safe spaces and then apply many different linear transformations.
What we do is that we first apply the huge linear transformations so a dense layer intense flow and
then we split the space into safe spaces.
The reason why we do that is that it allows the architecture the module to learn more because the transformer
could say that's it's better for him to make let's say the first and the eight and the tenth dimensions
work together.
So during the first big linear transformation he will just rearrange all the dimensions of our embedding
to put together the ones that work the best together actually.
And then we will split into safe spaces because if we split first then it means that's the first second
and third dimensions will always work together and have not access to the other dimensions for the scale
dot products.
And maybe that's not optimal.
So that's why we first apply a big linear formation and then we do this plating and of course after
updating the scared the attentions to all those spaces we can get everything back in order to get back
to the initial dimension of our embedding.
So that was a huge part understanding this attention mechanism how it works.
This composition of the elements of different sequences don't hesitate to go back to each to have a
look at the figures but that was it for the hardest part which was actually also the more interesting
one because in my opinion it's really interesting how this says a lot about how language works for humans.
My interpretation is that's the transformer is getting closer to how we as humans actually process our
language.
I feel like that we process sentences globally and that's what after the other.
And the fact that the word comes after the other in a sentence when we talk when we read is just the
constraints of how our language is made by the way all brain gets the information and process a sentence
is closer to how the transformer deals with it.
With the attention mechanism I feel like we do it more globally and then the language working words
after words is just maybe a none optimal way to convey information of the meaning of what we wanted
to say.
Anyway that was maybe a bit esoteric but it's just that I find it really interesting how the sequence
to sequence models evolved to get to this one that seems closer in my opinion to how we really processed
language as humans.
So of course we are not done with the explanation of the transformer because there are some other details
in the implementation that we have to deal with but for the main part this is done.
So we only have a few other details to see before starting to implement transformer.
Hopefully excited and see you soon.